Hello. In this video, we will demonstrate how MLExp works. MLExp is a Python library focused on assisting with the experimentation process in Machine Learning, enabling automated execution while maintaining statistical rigor. We simulate a situation from the daily work of a data scientist where different machine learning models are trained and it will be necessary to decide which model performs best. We want to perform this analysis not only by comparing measures of central tendency, but also by recognizing that the scenarios exhibit significant differences in performance, which helps ensure the reliability of decision-making. In this example, we use a credit card fraud detection scenario, in which two classification models use different test sets because they employ different features in their modeling. For the tool, we initially instantiate the main class, in which we define the main parameters, such as the performance metrics to be used in the analysis and the location where the generated reports will be stored. After that, we map the test sets, assigning an identifier, indicating where the feature data is located in the X_test parameter and where the results are located in the y_test parameter. After mapping the two test datasets, we assemble what we call a context. A context is the scenario in which a trained model will be evaluated and on which test dataset it will be applied to perform the comparison. Therefore, we map each context to an identifier, the trained model, and the test dataset. In this way, the tool allows for comparisons between scenarios where models use the same test dataset and the same features, and those where models use different features.

When the `run()` command is executed, the tool will collect performance data from each context and apply a flow of statistical tests to support the detection of significant differences between the performance data of each context. The flow involves applying statistical tests such as Shapiro-Wilk, Levene, Mann-Whitney, and Student's t-test. At the end, after execution, the tool will generate report files in the specified directory. This report will contain a JSON file for each performance metric, showing the results of the statistical tests applied to the contexts involving that performance metric. An HTML file is also generated to display a consolidated view of all the performance metric results. Finally, for each metric, it will be reported whether a statistical difference was detected and, if so, the best model among those that showed significant differences. The choice of the best model is based on a comparison of the median of the collected performance data.

In this way, the data scientist can have a deeper analysis of the performance results of the models and make a more assertive decision. The tool also has a command-line option, which allows this approach to be incorporated into automated workflows. In the case of command-line operation, in addition to generating reports, if a better context exists, it will be returned in the command output.